now most adults are likely to lift a 100
pound person without any problems
but it's not as easy to pick up a piece
of rock weighing 100 pounds
it's hard to get a good grasp on the
stone that's why you need to have a lot
of grip strength
you'll also need to tighten your chest
muscles otherwise the rock will push
your arms apart
and slip out your toes won't appreciate
that
and don't forget that the stone has a
more or less evenly distributed weight
this makes it seem even heavier than it
is to schlep a person around
you don't have to bend all the way down
to the ground you need little strength
to straighten your knees and back
if you had to reach under the 100 pound
person's feet to lift them off the
ground
yes you would definitely break a sweat
you can also have a better grasp on said
person
you involve more muscles than when you
lift a rock leg
back cores glutes forearms and so on
the best thing their weight isn't
distributed evenly
and the person you're trying to lift can
choose to make it easier for you
for example they can wrap their arms
around your shoulders
now for something smaller some of the
bacteria that live in your gut can
produce electricity
they give off electrons and this creates
tiny electrical currents
scientists think it might be the
bacteria's backup system
their way to generate energy your body
emits
faint but visible light it's the
brightest at about
three to four pm and the least
noticeable in the morning
at 10 a.m but even at 3 30 p.m
this glow is a thousand times less
intense than what your eyes can perceive
it takes your blood 90 seconds to travel
all the way around your body
your brain is 73 water just like your
heart
if your brain loses a mere two percent
of its liquid
you'll immediately start to feel
exhausted this will also
worsen your memory shorten your
attention span and make you
cranky time for a drink if your eyes see
something for a mere
13 milliseconds it's enough for your
brain to process this image
your tongue consists of two pairs of
four intertwined muscles
the whole structure resembles an
elephant's trunk or an
octopuses arm just like them the tongue
is flexible
and can move in any direction you can't
swallow and breathe at the same
time it's your body's safety mechanism
both the food you swallow and the air
you breathe go down the same part of
your throat at first
only a bit deeper the passage splits
into two different pipes
when you swallow the passage for air
gets closed off
automatically otherwise you may
accidentally inhale
food anybody done that besides me
your brain can decide what sounds to
focus on when you're in a loud place
thanks to this ability you can shout out
all other voices
and concentrate on the person you're
listening to
people are the only living beings that
produce emotional tears
other creatures shed tears to lubricate
their eyes
that's good to know some people have
more than one row of
eyelashes this phenomenon is a genetic
mutation
called dystociasis those who have this
condition have a second set of eyelashes
growing behind
the first the fattiest organ in your
body
is your brain fat makes up at least 60
percent of its driveway
the brain also contains about a quarter
of your body's cholesterol
but this substance is very important for
the brain without it
this organ wouldn't survive you think
your longest bone is your thigh bone and
the tiniest one
is in your ear it's shorter than a grain
of rice
your fingernails grow faster on your
dominant hand
so if you write with your right hand
you'll have to cut the nails on the
right hand fingers more often
your fingernails also grow faster in the
summer and
during the day but the fingernail on
your pinky grows more slowly than on the
other fingers
each of your taste buds functions as a
mini computer
it consists of 50 to 100 receptor cells
that analyze taste information they can
distinguish between sweet
bitter salty sour and savory foods
about 25 percent of people sneeze when
they see bright light
this phenomenon is called the photic
sneeze reflex
translated from greek it means sun
sneezing
your feet are likely to become bigger
with time
when people grow older ligaments and
tendons in their feet weaken
this makes the arches flatter and feet
wider and longer
if you don't have insomnia goody for you
you're likely to spend around one third
of your life asleep
but some animals sleep even more for
example
for a dog the time spent asleep is 44
percent of their life
and for a python 75
that's the sleeping squeezing snake
sleep syndrome
nah i just made that up because i could
your lips don't sweat because there are
no sweat glands there
neither do your lips have the glands
that produce a special protective film
it keeps the rest of your skin hydrated
that's why your lips are so
vulnerable to the sun wind and cold they
also dry out faster than other parts of
the body
your right lung is shorter than the left
one because it has to leave some room
for your liver
but the left lung is narrower it has to
make space for the heart
so accommodating a man's lungs can
usually hold more air than a woman's
some think he produces more hot air too
people find it hard to recognize someone
they know if they see a photo where this
person is without eyebrows
it means that brows are more important
for face recognition than
eyes your body contains around 30
trillion cells
more than 7 billion people live on earth
let's do the math
that means there are more than 4 000
times more cells in your body than there
are people on our planet
now when someone's lying their own nose
gives them away
scientists have found that when a person
tells a lie the temperature around their
nose
and in the inner corners of their eyes
rises
this phenomenon is called the pinocchio
effect
there are more than 200 bones in your
body one quarter of them are in your
feet
the average foot has 36 bones 33 joints
19 muscles and 107 ligaments
if some of the bones in your feet aren't
aligned properly
it affects the entire body scientists
grew several human taste cells in the
lab
and discovered they could smell in each
of these cells
there were several molecules like the
ones you have in the cells in your nose
that's why taste cells react to odor
molecules
pretty much like the smell cells it
means the senses of smell
and taste are even more connected than
it was believed
the human brain is a real random thought
generator
almost 50 thoughts appear in your brain
within one minute
it's three thousand thoughts per hour
and more than 70
000 per day speaking of thoughts it was
once believed that sweet potatoes were
thinking beings
because of descartes famous quote cogido
ergo spud
translated as i think therefore i yam
but no your lips look red because the
skin there is extremely thin and
delicate
for comparison the skin on your face is
up to 16 cell layers thick
and on your lips there are only three to
five layers of cells
that's why a lot of tiny capillaries
that are right below the skin
are more visible just like your
fingerprints
the red part of your lips has a unique
pattern of furrows
only three percent of people all over
the planet have the lines forming the
letter x on both their palms
it's a rare phenomenon and in many
cultures
this feature is believed to be a sign of
a strong character
five basic senses aren't the only ones
people have
there's also the sense of space sense of
pain
sense of balance sense of time sense of
temperature around and
in the body and so on makes sense
your stomach gets a new lining every
three to four days
this way your body prevents the stomach
from eating itself
that's how potent your digestive acids
are
you start to feel thirsty when water
loss is one percent of your body weight
more than five percent and you may faint
there are more than 650 skeletal muscles
in your body
they make up around 40 percent of your
body weight sounds impressive
but let's say caterpillars have many
more muscles than you do
up to four thousand and the grasshopper
has
nine hundred so there by the way
almost eighty-five percent of the heat
your body produces
comes from your muscles contracting
there are between two and five million
sweat glands on your body
they produce two different kinds of
sweat stress sweat
and regular sweat stress related sweat
contains
fatty acids and proteins and the regular
one is made up mainly
of water salt and a tiny bit of other
substances
hey don't sweat the small stuff your
fingers are super sensitive
they can feel objects that are no bigger
than the width of your hair
it means that if your finger was the
same size as earth
you would still feel the difference
between cars and houses
and scientists found out that sitting
and looking upward
makes it easier to recollect positive
memories
but if you need to remember something
bad you sit
and look downward so stop that